# VBS 2014

Day 1: Capture the Flag
=============

Setup
-------
Take a large area. Define a center line. On one corner of each side of the field should be a jail that is marked with cones. Opposite of the jail should be the goal zone that is also marked with cones. In the center of the goal zone should be another cone with a ball on it. 

Divide the teams evenly into two groups. One set of players will get a set of pennies to wear, the other team will not. Teams will go to the far ends of their respective sides.

Game Play
---------------
In this game, the field is divided up into two sides. Your goal is to bring the other team's ball back to your side. 

When you cross over onto the other side of the field, you can be tagged by any member of the other team. If you are tagged, you must go directly to their **jail zone**. When you are in jail, a team member can run and tag you and both of you get a free walk back to your side of the field. If the game leader yells **Jailbreak!**, anyone in jail is allowed a free walk back to their side.

The ball is located in the **goal zone**. When you run into the goal zone, people from the opposite team cannot tag you for 10 seconds. After 10 seconds, you must leave the goal zone or your opponents can run in and tag you. 

When you have the ball, if you get tagged the ball must be reset back to the goal zone before anyone else can grab it. If you throw the ball to try to make it to your side, one of your team mates must catch it for it to count. If they drop it, it must be put back in the goal zone.

After a ball is scored, the ball is put back in the goal zone.

Supplies
----------------
40 pennies  
18 cones (4 per zone + 1 for the middle post of the goal zone)  
2 balls

Day 2: Frozen Shirt Race
==============

Setup
-------
Obtain a separate shirt for each team playing. Soak it in water and then place it in a freezer overnight. Meanwhile also obtain enough cups for each team playing.

Place a single red bucket full of water into the middle of the game area. Place empty buckets with a line marked in them equidistant from the center bucket.

Game Play
---------------
The goal of the game is to fill your colored buckets to the fill line with water. You will do this by running back and forth with cups from the center buckets to your colored buckets. Your team will have 5 cups, and everyone on the team must have ran at least once anyone can run a second time.

However, there is a twist. No one on your team can start running unless they have one of your colored T-Shirts. The shirts are frozen, so you must first break them a part and then your runners must put them on before they go and fill up their cup of water.

After one team member gets the cup of water, they must take off the shirt and give it to someone else. You must have your shirt completely on before you can start running. You will have 5 shirts, so after you get the first one, you might want to start breaking open the others as well.

Game Play Maths
-----------------------

| Variable        | Value | Description                                   |
| ---------       | ----- | --------------------------------------------- |
| 1 full run      | 20s   | Time to make a round trip to the water bucket | 
| Game Time       | 420s  | Total game time in seconds                    |
| Runs per game   | 27    | Number of runs available in a full game       |
| Size of cup     | 8oz   | Size of cup being used                        |
| Spill allowance | 2oz   | Buffer to allow for spillage                  |
| Load per run    | 6oz   | Size of cup minus spill allowance             |
| Water transfer  | 162oz | Amount of water able to be transferred        |

1 run = 20 seconds
Each action of putting on the shirt, running to the main water container, filling the cup, running back, and taking off the shirt should take this number of seconds.

Total game time  = 7 minutes
7 minutes * 60 seconds/minute = 420 seconds
420 seconds / 20 seconds = 27 runs per shirt.

Using Red Solo Cups, each run would transfer about 6oz of water (cups hold 8oz and we're allowing for spilling).

That means that 27 cups times 6oz = 162oz of water for a 7 minute run. That's 1.2 gallons of water.

If you were to time this by 5 cups, you'd get 810oz of water or 6.3 gallons of water.

Supply List
------------------------

1 goal bucket for each team  
1 filling bucket for each team  

1 t-shirt and 1 cup for each team, times the number of runners available to every team.
For instance, if each team can have 3 runners, it is 3 shirts and 3 cups per team.


Day 3: Ahfron
=====

Setup
--------
Place four colored buckets on one end of the game area. Have all players start on the opposite end of the game area. 

Game Play
---------------
The goal of the game is to get as many cards as possible into your bucket. You can get cards to tagging a **card tosser** wearing a funny hat. Whenever you tag the card tosser, they will throw cards into the air. You can pick up only one card at a time and bring it back to your colored bucket.

However, while you are trying to do this some leaders will be running around with **ahfrons**. If you get hit by the spinning ahfron, you must sit down where you were tagged.

When you are tagged, the only way to become untagged is for a **medic** to tap you with one of the pool noodles. As soon as you are tapped, you can get up and continue your journey to get the card into the bucket. 

Whoever gets the most cards into their bucket wins the game.

Supply List
------------------

Decks of cards  
Pool noodles  
Funny hats (optional)  
Ahfrons (socks with other socks stuffed inside them)  

Day 5: Water Attack
==========

Setup
-------
Create an arena by using cars to create an enclosed area in the middle of the parking lot. This space will be used as the center for the game. Most likely this should happen nearby the skate park area of the parking lot.

In the arena place 5 full trash cans of water, all of the trash cans being loaded with random water toys (squishy balls, water balloons, etc).

Gather all leaders 5 minutes before game time, explain the rules and have them hide in/around cars.

Game Play
--------------
Bring all the kids into the center of the arena. Tell them that their counselors have left to go get Starbucks and will be back in a little bit. Divide the group by gender into two teams. Each team is told to come up with their own cheer.

About 2 minutes into coming up with a cheer, yell out the signal and have leaders rush in with water guns, buckets, etc. Giant water fight breaks out.

All leaders should know that kids that are outside of the boundaries of the arena are off limits, as this is the dry zone. One leader with the hose is essentially the guard and anyone behind them should be considered safe. 

Supply List
--------------

Water sponges  
Water guns  
Buckets full of water  
